# UAPI Header export list
include include/uapi/asm-generic/Kbuild.asm

generic-y += auxvec.h
generic-y += bitsperlong.h
generic-y += bpf_perf_event.h
generic-y += errno.h
generic-y += fcntl.h
generic-y += ioctl.h
generic-y += ioctls.h
generic-y += ipcbuf.h
generic-y += kvm_para.h
generic-y += mman.h
generic-y += msgbuf.h
generic-y += param.h
generic-y += poll.h
generic-y += posix_types.h
generic-y += resource.h
generic-y += sembuf.h
generic-y += setup.h
generic-y += shmbuf.h
generic-y += siginfo.h
generic-y += socket.h
generic-y += sockios.h
generic-y += stat.h
generic-y += statfs.h
generic-y += termbits.h
generic-y += termios.h
generic-y += types.h
generic-y += ucontext.h
